*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 69756 ***

                [Illustration: _A. W. Callcott. R.A._]




                             FRONTISPIECE.

                            [Illustration]


                 The nicest Puddings, Tarts, and Pies,
                   Shall be those Children’s Fare,
                 Who’re curious to be good and wise,
                   And make their Book their Care.




                                  THE
                                CHILD’s
                            CURIOSITY BOOK,
                        Embellished with CUTS.


                                LONDON:

                   Published by G. THOMPSON, No. 43,
                        Long Lane, Smithfield.


                          _Price One Penny._




                               CONTENTS


                       The Robin Red-breast
                       The Nursery
                       Story of Sally Sulkey
                       The good Children’s Feast
                       The Careless Children
                       The Pretty Sport
                       Fire-works and Crackers
                       Sports of Harlequin




                     THE CHILD’s _CURIOSITY BOOK_.




                         THE ROBIN RED-BREAST.

                            [Illustration]


The Robin Red-breast is a very pretty and social bird, and particularly
fond of mankind. See here he is! Pretty creature, he will come into our
houses, and pick up whatever he can find. And it will be wrong to put
him into a cage, as he makes himself so good a companion without such
confinement. The little Robin Red-breasts covered the dead children in
the wood; and every body ought to love them.

Yet there was a naughty boy once who tried to catch a poor Robin, as
he was hopping about, picking up the crumbs. The bird escaped, and got
upon a rail; but the boy in pursuing him, fell down, and hurt himself
so much, that he kept his bed for a fortnight; a just punishment for
his want of hospitality.




                             THE NURSERY.

                            [Illustration]


There is nothing more tender than the love of a mother to her child.
Here is the nursery. Do but observe with what care the fond parent
tends her child, though it often cries, and is peevish. Whatever be the
trouble it gives.

    “Parental love shall never cease,
     But always will remain.”

How many sports are sought for, to divert the mother’s darling!

You were such a little creature in arms once; and no doubt you were
nursed with care; therefore you ought to make amends for it, by being
good and dutiful, for those who are otherwise come to no good; an
example of which you will find in the next page.




                        STORY OF SALLY SULKEY.

                            [Illustration]


Sally was a little girl of whom her parents were too fond, and even her
nurse, when she was in arms, let her have all she cried for, and so
she cried for almost every thing; thus she was early spoiled, chiefly
because she was pretty.

As she grew up she proved more and more obstinate, she behaved sullen,
and would pout for hours, nay, sometimes for a whole day, about some
trifle, while not any body could tell what was the matter. In short,
she grew so very naughty, that her parents were obliged often to
correct her severely. She was only more sullen for it. At last she was
so wicked to run away from her father and mother; but in going through
a meadow, she was pursued by a mischievous bull, and though she escaped
from him, and got home again, yet she was so much frightened, that she
was subject to fits ever after.




                      THE GOOD CHILDREN’S FEAST.

                            [Illustration]


There were a number of children, who were all school-fellows, got
together to play, when the squire of the parish coming that way, gave
them some money for fruit and cakes, and desired they would divide
what they bought with all their companions. Now Master and Miss
Fairchild, who belonged to the party, happening then to be absent,
these greedy children would not share what they had got with them when
they returned. While they were complaining how hard this was, the
squire happening again to come by, reproved them for their behaviour,
and said he would report them to their school-master; but he invited
Master Fairchild and his sister to his own house, where he feasted them
with puddings, pies, and all sorts of niceties; but not one of the
greedy children was admitted.




                        THE CARELESS CHILDREN.

                            [Illustration]


Exercise is good for health, and therefore sports which keep the limbs
in motion are proper for children; but they should be careful to use
such as are safe. Charley Careless and Sukey Hairbrain suffered for
want of minding this maxim. They were fond of swinging on a rope, and
their parents thought the exercise did them good; but having once
neglected to fasten it properly, down they came, and were much hurt,
and still more frightened. This was very heedless, and as pretty as the
sport had seemed, it hindered them from using it for the future.

    “Learn to be wise from others harm,
     And you shall do full well.”




                           THE PRETTY SPORT.

                            [Illustration]


Tommy Trueby was a good and sensible boy, who never played the truant,
nor kept company with naughty children. He did not like tossing up, nor
chuck-farthing, because he thought it might lead him to love gaming
when he was grown up. But he liked very well to play at ball, and top,
and more particularly at marbles; at which he was very clever; never
cheated, and played so well, that he used to teach the neighbouring
children.

And here you see him instructing Master Manly, a Baronet’s son in the
place, as he did in matters of more consequence; and behaved so well
toward him, that he was his friend all his life time.




                       FIRE-WORKS AND CRACKERS.

                            [Illustration]


Fire-works are things that look very pretty when they are properly
managed by those who understand them. But children ought to take care
how they meddle with gunpowder, lest they should hurt themselves or
other people.

Tom Hazard (for example) was always fond of playing with serpents,
crackers, &c. At one time he was near doing damage, by his fire-works
falling into a cellar; and at another, as you see in the cut, he so
much frightened one of his schoolfellows, that he fell down and put his
ancle out; for which Tom was severely corrected, and you must own he
richly deserved it.




                         SPORTS OF HARLEQUIN.

                            [Illustration]


When children are good and dutiful, their parents sometimes indulge
them, by taking them to see plays or shows. Among these there are
few so diverting as the humours of harlequin and the clown; the one
diverting you with his wonderful leaps and changes, and skipping
about, as the other does with his odd blunders and grimaces; so that
nobody can help laughing at them. Here they are both, and as pretty a
pair as you could wish. If you behave well, no doubt but you will see
them often, if you are not already acquainted with them. In the mean
time, I hope you have been pleased with the _Curiosity Book_, which was
designed as a pretty plaything on purpose for you.

    And never shall you want delight,
    If mirth with wisdom you unite.


                               THE END.




 NEW BOOKS
 FOR
 _CHILDREN_,

 _Sold Wholesale and Retail_,

 BY
 G. THOMPSON, No. 43,

 Long Lane, West-Smithfield,
 LONDON.


_Penny Books._

  The Child’s Curiosity Book.
  King Pippin’s Delight.
  A Trip to the Fair.
  Golden Letter Book.


_New Books._

  History of Master Playful, &c.
  Picture Alphabet.
  History of Tom Thumb.
  Cinderilla and Glass Slipper.
  Riddle Book.
  The Good Boy and Girl’s Lottery, all Prizes and no Blanks.


_Twopenny Books._

  Merry Andrew.
  King Pippin.
  Tommy Truelove’s Present.


_Sixpenny Books._

  Wife’s Fables.
  Little White Mouse.
  Windsor Castle.

And a great Variety of Childrens’ Books.


                            [Illustration]


                   *       *       *       *       *


 Transcriber’s Notes:

 ――Text in italics is enclosed by underscores (_italics_).

 ――A Contents listing has been provided for the convenience of the
   reader.

 ――The long “s” has been transcribed to a modern “s” throughout.

 ――Archaic and variable spelling has been preserved.

 ――Variations in hyphenation and compound words have been preserved.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 69756 ***
